8. A. Yes, there are groups that have developed genomic tools for the Glanville fritillary butterfly, including researchers in a
genome project for this organism at the Metapopulation Research Centre at the University of Helsinki in Finland.

URL: http://www.helsinki.fi/science/metapop/research/mcgenome.html

B. The researchers suggest that a genomic tool, LiSs (Linkage Map Superscaffolder), for superscaffolding will be published in the
future. The researchers report super scaffolds, which contain linkage map information, cover 72% of the glanville fritillary
butterfly’s genome. So therefore, the genomic tool, LiSs, is still being refined to map the remainder of the super scaffolds to
the remaining 28% of the organism’s genome.

C. The researchers of the Glanville fritillary butterfly genome project at the University of Helsinki in Finland sequenced its
genome and established a high-density linkage map for the organism. In order to do so, the researchers developed novel genomic
tools, including: (1) LEP-MAP (Lepidoptera-MAP) software for constructing accurate linkage maps using high-density SNP data,
(2) MIP (Mixed Integer Programs) Scaffolder for genome scaffolding, (3) Coral and Hybrid SHREC for read error correction,
(4) PANNZER (Protein ANNotational with Z-scoRE) for functional annotation, and (5) EPT (Expressed Peptide Tags) and SANS (Suffix
Array Neighborhood Search) for orthology prediction.

D. Yes, if we use “glanville fritillary butterfly” as our query on the NCBI website, then our search returns relevant literature
and genomes results.

URL: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gquery/?term=glanville+fritillary+butterfly

If we take a look at Genomes —> Assembly, we will find the genome assembly information that was published by the scientists at
the University of Helsinki.

URL: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/assembly/GCA_000716385.1/

E. We have a glanville fritillary butterfly reference genome, an assembly of sequenced DNA from a number of individual
butterflies, so therefore we would be able to discover SNPs without implementing microarrays. Foremost, one would sequence an
individual butterfly’s genome by next-generation sequencing. Next, one would search for SNPs using SNP calling software programs,
such as bcftools/samtools or GATK (Genome Analysis Toolkit). Then, one would verify the sequence of the putative SNPs through PCR
using primers to amplify a region in close proximity to the true location of the variants. If we did not have a reference genome,
we would have to employ another genomic method to detect and discover SNPs. Perhaps, sequencing of restriction-site-associated
DNA tags (RAD-Seq) we could compare multiple individuals tagged with multiple adapters and infer variant positions. (van Dijk
et al., 2014). In short, we could sample a subset of an organism's genome, those regions containing restriction sites, by using
restriction endonucleases and comparing resulting regions across individuals of the same species.

Reference:
1. van Dijk et al. “Ten years of next-generation sequencing technology.” Trends in Genetics 30.9 (2014): 418-426. Print.
